---
title: From GUI IDE to Emacs in 30 days you can do it!
author: Ben Wann
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=400
categories:
  - Erlang
  - Linux
  - Technology

---
I am getting acquainted with the wide well-trodden world of developing software in the emacs text editor.  I had people telling me, that when I wanted to get serious about developing software on linux, that I would stop using GUI based IDEs and start rocking the command line in full. I am no stranger to the linux command line, that is where the majority of my time is spent the last few years, but VIM was the tool of choice when on the server, and Netbeans / Eclipse when I was developing locally.

Oh what a change.

When I first started using emacs, I would ask my colleagues how to use a certain emacs &#8220;plugin&#8221; and I would get some really funny looks and some deriding comments surrounding the inaccuracy of such a statement.  I was told, emacs has modes Ben, so lets talk about those.  Fine.

> It is probably good to note right about now, that I have known about emacs for some time, but kind of put it on a pedestal of tool that grey bearded wizards used, and that only should be used if developing the core linux kernel, or device drivers, or other such nonsense.  Us webdev guys really should just stick to our new GUI based hotness (textmate, sublime text, &#8230;..) and leave emacs for those previously mentioned.  Wrong again here.  Probably should backup and note that Textmate and Sublime Text are supremely awesome tools and I love them as well, but this post is about emacs and its awesomeness.

I had spent the last 9 years doing web development with PHP and MySQL.  Through that experience I got to know linux, web hosting, security, firewall administration, and a whole host of other skills that come with building online systems.  Using the aforementioned IDEs mostly for doing day to day coding, and really had no use for tools like emacs.  When I went onto the server, and needed to edit files, I would use VIM to do my server surgery and get in and get out.

I switched jobs a couple of months ago now to a company that develops an open source communications platform called Kazoo (<http://2600hz.com/platform.html>)

&nbsp;